Analog:
    A realtime response to measure the state of something.
    An analog dial of a speedo, represents the physical state of the wheels.

Digital:
    Is either on or off, so its more difficult for Digital to represent points between measures.
    For example with speedo, you dont jump between 20mph and 21mph, it gradually moves between.

Transistors:
    Transistors control the state of 1 or 0s in the computer (5V or 0V). They are made from a special type of metal called a semi-conductor. Silicon is the main element in this semi-conducted meaning sometimes it allows electricity to flow and sometimes it doesn't. You control this behavior of this semi-conductor by warming it up just enough, by applying 1V to it, to allow electricity to flow.
    This controls the 1s and 0s. This is how computers work.

CPU - Central Processing Unit:
    This is the brain of the computer. It can only do one thing at a time (with 90% of the CPUs on the market). It can process data at billions of times a second.
    Here are a couple of things that a CPU at its core can do:
        Store something in memory
        Math
        Retrieve something from memory
        Send something out to somewhere
    There is probably only 2 dozen actions a CPU can take, but it is one these actions that we have built the modern computer.

    Clock:
        This is the CPUs commander that tells it when to execute the next command. And it quite literally is a clock, but it spins billions of times per second.

Memory:
    This is the CPUs temporary storage location outside the CPU, which is used to store variables and constants that will be used later by the CPU.
    The CPU basically goes, give me the data in the memory at location 0001 then the cpu then performs the action using the data.

Hard Drive (HHD):
    This is a way the computer store data permantly, without it you'd have to reprogram your computer everytime you turn your computer back on. It works, in modern computers, by using a disk that it reads and writes. 

Solid State Drive (SSD):
    This is another way your computer can store data permantly, often the HHD and SSD are working in tandem in computers as SSDs are quite expensive. However they are MUCH faster, because there are no moving parts in an SSD it is all done via electrical signals. With a HHD you have to wait for the HHD to physically read and write the data on the disk.
    An SSD is basically made from modified transistors that stay conductive when electricity is passed through it.

 
